---
layout: post
title: Part 1

---

> From the point of view of the universe, Max's death wasn't a big deal,
> it was just my big deal.
>
> -- Steve Eisman, as quoted in Michael Lewis' _The Big Short_

## Introduction

I've noticed that, with almost every large, defining moment in life, 
a need to share, or at least explain, starts up once things start to
wind down.  The need to move on from life lived with parents for so long
at the beginning of college led to a big jump in the number of words
written, for me, and ditto getting settled at my new job: that was about
the time that I started to work on \[adjective\]\[species\].

It's not really so much that I have the need to write about what
happened, even, as that, after something of such import, I feel the need
to expose myself through writing, to force ideas out into the open
whether or not they actually have anything to do with what's going on.
That was the case with getting a new job.  I didn't need to write about
the new job, I just needed to write.  Creativity, it seems, is one of
those things where, the more you put it to use, the more you *must* use
it.

I've toyed with how to write something like this for the last few
months.  In this case, after all, I feel the need to actually write
about what really happened, as I tried the whole "write about something
else" thing and it didn't work; it didn't relieve that pressure within
myself that needed to be released.  I even tried venting little bits of
it here and there on twitter, but now, I think I really need to get this
down in a long format.

I tried to kill myself on March 21st, 2012.  It was, as the epigram
says, not a big deal; it was just my big deal.

## Beforehand

I have always been one of those on-edge people that can't quite seem to
manage to calm down.  It's been with me for as long as I can remember;
being told that I take things too seriously, that I'm jittery and need
to just chill out, that I'm too emotional about things.

I have specific memories dating back to when I was seven or so, being
told that I was taking things too seriously and was "such a crybaby"
about it.  I've been told by my mother, that even earlier than that I
explained my fears, that back to the moment of my birth, she and I both
were too nervous to sleep when the nurses put me in a crib in her
hospital room, that we both lay awake, staring at each other, unable to
get the necessary rest without some alone time.

This is one of the benefits of psychotherapy: not so much as finding
fault in things, as finding a common trend that winds its way through
life, connecting moment to moment across sometimes (relatively) vast
distances of time, so that we can say, "See, it is doing this now."

While it wasn't until the beginning of 2012, at the urging and on the
recommendation of my boss that I started seeing a psychiatrist also
credentialed in pyschotherapy that I started to really put these in
words, I knew all about panic by the time I had started my job.  In a
myriad of ways, I was feeling the symptoms of anxiety from day to day,
and I was having my own little panic attacks.

It was the type of thing that worried me enough to see a doctor at one
point, worried that I was starting to show signs of agoraphobia, since I
was having a hard time walking around in public (quite a problem when
one has to walk to class).  While I know that the psychologist that I
saw at the time touched on issues relating to panic and anxiety in a
more holistic manner, I suppose I was mostly interested in having a
diagnosis I could wave in others' faces, at the time, and I didn't seem
to have internalized any of it.  Indeed, judging from actions after the
fact, I seem to have even forgotten about the diagnosis.

I should note that I wasn't some jangled, half-crazed hermit who
couldn't leave his house without serious psychological pain.  I felt,
and still feel, like a fairly normal person.  There's not spectacular
about me that points to some dramatic panic disorder.  I interact
happily with my friends, I can deal with store clerks and walk through
crowds, even if it takes a bit of concentration
